let's talk today about winter feeding
our bees in the northern climates I live
in Utah and so the winter months are
fairly cold there are periods of time
when we'll go for several weeks the
temperature never gets much above
freezing
when we've got bees to bed in the winter
we try to have enough stores for them to
last through the winter until spring
when the hut when the cluster can break
and they can get to the outer frames but
sometimes it doesn't work that way this
year we've had quite a few days where
the temperature had been in the in the
upper 50s which means that the bees are
active and all they're doing is eating
they're not producing anything they're
not getting any nectar and so in most
conditions sometimes we'll run short on
honey and it's a terrible shame to lose
a higher because they run out of stores
the way bees feed in the winter is they
get in a cluster and say it's four
frames wide they will eat going up so if
they're in the if you have a two box
wintering hive and then in the bottom
box they don't start out down there and
they'll eat straight up and once they
get to the very top unless the weather
is warm enough that they can break
cluster and move over to an outside
frame those outer frames will stay I
still have honey in them and the bees
will run out of food and will starve
and it's terrible that that happens one
of the ways that I try to prevent that
is with some dry feeding in the winter
now I've used several ways you just
pouring dry sugar on on top of the inner
cover with the hole where they could
come up to it
I used a candy board and candy boys
worked quite well this is a candy for
that I made up a couple of years ago and
haven't used yet but I just take a piece
of 3/4 inch quarter inch plywood the
same size as the hive and then I put a
furring strip nailed around the edge
and then I cook up some sugar with a
jigger and and the small amount of water
cook it to a soft ball stage let it cool
a little bit and then pour it under
there and let it set up it always
granulates no matter what I do so I
don't worry about it beast could still
take care of it then what you do here is
did for this on top of the hive and when
the bees get up to it then they will eat
it and they'll eat an area in the middle
like this they usually leave the corners
and so that's that's kind of a waste on
there there are some people who will put
some essential oils or mix a little dry
Paul substitute in with it I never have
my thinking on it is if the bees are
eating their natural honey in the hive
there's nothing natural honey there's no
pollen that mixed in with that and they
get along just fine on it when I've
tried to give them some palm before they
easily don't take it we have a great
source of pollen in our area from spring
early spring it's a late fall so that's
that's one method that you can use a
method that I have used in the past it
was right
I made these boxes just three-quarter
inch and about four inches high a drill
hole in the front and the bottom for
ventilation and for the bees to use and
then on the bottom I attacked a plastic
queen excluder and what I've done in the
past is you take a piece of parchment
paper lay it down here and then pour
about five pounds of dry sugar on top of
it and sit that it right on top of the
cluster and then put your your cover
over the top our climate is dry enough
here that that sugar doesn't really set
up it'll get a crust on the outside but
I found that what happens as the bees
are eating up through the bottom they'll
get into the sugar where it hasn't been
set up and it'll just drain it out
through and so I lose quite a bit of
sugar that come
I mix a mess I'll even get sometimes a
couple inches of sugar down on the
bottom board so what I've gone to from
that is to moisten the sugar and then
just make a big sugar patty that I put
on there put it on the hive and it works
great for the bees and here's the way I
do that I make it out just granulated
sugar and a ratio of 1 1 cup of water
for every 5 pounds of sugar so I don't
do 25 pounds here so I've got 5 cups of
water measured out I'll put a little
water in the bottom and then we just
pour a little sugar
people it'll stir with a spoon there's
not a big deal on this story it just
gets more Singh lettuce in a few minutes
it'll come firm up on its own
wait a little bit and it gets the water
mix it into it for a little more water
and the rest of the water and with just
a little stirring it isn't long until
we've got kind of a paste that we've
made up with the sugar and water this is
an easy way to feed it's a great
insurance and he should because if they
don't take you just shake it out of the
box next spring add to your syrup that
you're making for spring feeding and
your business
you do all of this and have moments even
make sure that five pounds there we have
it
believe it for a couple of days it'll
set up so this is hard and I can haul it
out and put it on the bee's knees they
waited until just before Christmas let
me have a day when it's crisp and cold
no wind you want to be cold so when you
open the Hyatt to put this on
you're not gonna disturb the bees if
it's cold you but not and then won't
even care and notice that you've been
there
thank you